Information
-----------

Data Model
----------

The raw data is stored in mzML files at NERSC. The raw data is parsed
into HDF files for easier access and stored alongside the mzML files.
The metatlas metadata is stored in a MySQL database at NERSC. There are
python objects in metabolite atlas that correspond to each object type
in the table. The python objects are IPython
(traitlets)[http://traitlets.readthedocs.org/en/stable/], which allow
for attribute validation and change notification. The
(dataset)[https://dataset.readthedocs.org/en/latest/] library is used
where possible to simplify access to the MySQL database. Otherwise,
custom queries are created as needed. The dataset library provides
custom table schema creation and ORM handling.

An object holds a reference to another object by storing the
``unique_id`` of the other object in the table. An object can contain a
list of references to other objects. These are stored in a separate link
table, which allows a many-to-many relationship of objects. Where
possible, access to the database is batched, where a query to each table
is made only once for a given operation.

Provenance Model
----------------

A metatlas object has a ``creation_time`` and a ``username``, which is
the ``$USER`` of the person who created this version of the object. An
object has three unique identifiers: the ``unique_id``, the
``prev_uid``, and the ``head_id``. The "current object" is the one where
the ``unique_id`` matches the ``head_id``. When a user makes a change to
their own object, the previous entry in the database is given a new
``unique_id``, that id is stored as the ``prev_uid`` of the new entry.
The same is done for any entries in the link table(s). The ``head_id``
is used for grouping a set of changes together. A new ``head_id`` is
created on a ``.clone()`` of an object, or when saving changes to an
object created by another user.

Visualization
-------------

A metatlas object can be edited by calling ``.edit()``, which creates an
IPython widget interface to the object, allowing the user to edit the
object. A group of metatlas objects can be edited by calling
``edit_objects()``, which creates a QGrid widget, allowing the user to
edit the objects in a table. The matplotlib notebook backend is used to
create interactive visualizations of data.
